
The Temple of the Greater Sunda Islands was overwhelmed with their work writing
scriptures, so they requested help from the Temple of the Iron Mines.

The Temple of the Iron Mines sent Borrow, one of their most proficient
disciples, who started writing scriptures shortly after arriving to the Temple
of the Greater Sunda Islands.

After some weeks of work, a fellow disciple named Stream reviewed those
scriptures, and immediately decided to bring them to the attention of a senior
scribe.

Master Ping was meditating under the most ancient tree around the temple, when
Stream approached, bringing the scriptures and the visiting disciple Borrow.

"Master Ping, I am bearer of bad news. Disciple Borrow has been writing the
scriptures in the snake style, used in the Temple of the Iron Mines. I
complained that we use the camel style in this temple but Borrow won't listen.
Please bring him to reason"

Master Ping used a staff to stand up and then swiftly hit Stream's head with it.
"Only fools waste time complaining about writing styles! Now retire and continue
studying scriptures"

As Stream bowed and walked away, still rubbing where Master Ping hit, disciple
Borrow started praising Master Ping, "I am grateful for witnessing your
wisdom... Ouch!". Another vigorous staff blow, this time in Borrow's head.

"Only fools waste other disciples' time with banal distractions! Now retire and
consider your readers' time when you write.", Master Ping commanded.

"But Master, the snake style is superior, just as round rice bowls are superior
to square bowls... Ow!". The staff made its third head interaction of the day.

Master Ping inquired, "What is the purpose of language?", scrutinizing the
scared eyes in Borrow's face. Ping continued, "It is a bridge that connects
souls. In a kitchen full of square bowls, the round bowl is as useful as a
broken plank in a bridge."

The disciple bowed and retired, enlightened.


Explanation: The ultimate goal of coding styles is to not get in the way so that
we can convey meaning fast. Consistency can reduce distractions and surprise,
which helps with speed. If you can't be completely consistent, favour local
consistency.

----- Rewritten by chatgpt, and some touches by me

The Temple of the Greater Sunda Islands was immersed in their sacred task of
inscribing ancient truths, beseeching aid from the Temple of the Iron Mines.

From afar, the Temple of the Iron Mines dispatched Borrow, a skilled disciple,
who swiftly immersed in the sacred art of inscription upon arrival at the Temple
of the Greater Sunda Islands.

Weeks passed, and amidst the diligent toil, a fellow disciple named Stream
beheld the scriptures, perceiving a deviation from the revered path. Stream
resolved to present the matter to a venerable elder.

Beneath the ancient tree's shelter, Master Ping sat absorbed in meditation. As
the rustle of approaching steps reached his ears, Stream arrived, bearing both
the scriptures and Borrow, the visiting disciple.

"Master Ping, bearer of troubling tidings I am," Stream began. "Disciple Borrow
inscribes in the serpentine manner, known within the Temple of the Iron Mines. I
voiced our devotion to the camel's grace, but Borrow remains unyielding. I
beseech your guidance."

Master Ping, rising with a measured grace, wielded a staff that swiftly met
Stream's head. "Foolish musings on style waste precious breath! Retire, and let
scriptures illuminate your path."

As Stream humbly bowed and departed, the lingering ache of Master Ping's
admonishment palpable, Borrow stepped forth, offering words of praise. "Grateful
am I to witness your wisdom... Ouch!" The staff met Borrow's head with equal
swiftness.

"Distractions of the mundane burden fellow disciples needlessly! Retire, and
wield your quill with mindful consideration for those who shall read," Master
Ping commanded.

"But Master, the serpentine style possesses inherent superiority, akin to round
rice bowls eclipsing square vessels... Ow!" Once more, the staff found its
target, marking the day's third encounter.

"What is the purpose of language?" the master inquired rhetorically, piercing
Borrow's eyes with unwavering gaze. "It serves as a bridge connecting souls.
Amidst a kitchen adorned with square bowls, the round vessel holds as much worth
as a fractured plank in a bridge."

The disciple bowed deeply, inward illumination attained, and retired.

------ Version 1

# Camels and snakes

Master Ping was meditating under the most ancient tree around the temple, as two
monks approached, seeking guidance.

"Our camels and snakes broke free, and we're entangled." they lamented. "One of
us believes we must capture the camels first so that they don't bite our clothes
while we look down for the snakes, while the other urges us to capture the
snakes first so that they don't bite our ankles while we look up for the camels.
Which case would be more favorable for us?"

Master Ping's eyes opened. "Let me ask you this: Should I speak the tongue from
the rusty iron mines, or that of the Greater Sunda Islands?

The monks hesitated until one whispered, "Master, you would be wise to speak the
language of the land you journey to."

Master Ping patiently observed the perplex monks. Slowly, disappointment
appeared in the Master's gaze, "What is the purpose of language?"

The monks dared not to answer this time. The eyes of Master Ping closed again,
"It is a bridge that connects souls. Some inconsistencies muddle the connection,
just as speaking the island tongue to miners. Lure the camels and snakes
separately and neither will bite you by surprise."

The monks bowed and retired, enlightened.


Explanation: The ultimate goal of coding styles is to not get in the way so that
we can convey meaning fast. Consistency can reduce distractions and surprise,
which helps with speed. If you can't be completely consistent, favour local
consistency.

